# aerobraking
A repository for the calculation of aerobraking parameters aboard a probe for planetary entry.

aerobraking is a respository in progress. Although all the code currently avaiable is finished, more code is planned to be added that will be able to verify and validate aerobraking parameter calculations, as well as generalize the process to a wider array of planetary entry vehicles. The code is currently worked on being rewritten to transform the script-based programs into more object-oriented ones. In other words, using the available code will not involve creating objects or calling functions, but rather changing the parameters and data in the report.

For the code provided, the user is required to be considering a planetary entry vehicle in which the primary method to arrest speed is the deflection of aerobrake fins, rather than a ballistic heat shield. THe user is required to have data pertaining to the aerobrake fin deflection angles, the associated drag force with these angle deflections, and the associated drag coefficients with these fin deflections and drag forces. It is recommended that the user employs computational fluid dynamics (CFD) for this purpose, as it could be automated to use an aerobraking fin deflection angle, with the appropriate flow regime, and find the drag force and drag coefficient. The original form of the code, which is displayed, used SolidWorks CFD for this purpose.

dragForceAndCDPlot.py takes this found aerobraking data (defleciton angles, drag forces, drag coefficients) and plots them in a dual-yaxis system. This program has really no other purpose than to gain an intuitive understanding of the data. It was found that the deflection with the highest drag coefficient was the optimal selection, regardless of the parachute chosen.

finDeflectAndDescentRate.py allows the user to propagate the entry probe state from aerobrake deployment to a given altitude. The initial conditions are able to be changed, and the final cutoff altitude may be changed as well. The program uses Runge-Kutta (45) integration to propagate the probe state. The program takes in the assumptions of a purely vertical velocity, rigid body assumptions, and no wind velocity. These can be easily added into the program (update_state function) if one chooses.

fullFinDeflectAndDescentRate.py allows the user to propagate the entry probe state from aerobrake deployment to a parachute deployment, and then to the ground (0 altitude). As with finDeflectAndDescentRate.py, the initial conditions may be changed, the parachute deployment and final cutoff altitude may be changed, and the parachute parameters may be changed as well. As with the previous program, it assumes a purely vertical velocity, rigid body assumptions, and no wind velocity.

This code was used to determine aerobraking parameters aboard a mock planetary entry probe, and the results found were used in the design of the probe flight oeprations. As a result from a probe test flight, the probe met all design requirements, lending veracity to the numerical methods used in the program. However, it was observed that the assumption of zero wind velocity created a significant problem not in the descent rate, but in probe attitude and spin rate. Horizontal wind velocity also caused drift during the descent trajectory, which was not a problem for the design in concern, but users should be noted of this problem. Future iterations of the program plan to add programs to probabilistically determine probe final state, as well as create programs to determine probe attitude and spin rate.
